version control:
- Version control, also known as source control, is the practice of tracking and managing changes to software code. Version control systems are software tools that help software teams manage changes to source code over time. As development environments have accelerated, version control systems help software teams work faster and smarter. They are especially useful for DevOps teams since they help them to reduce development time and increase successful deployments.
Version control software keeps track of every modification to the code in a special kind of database. If a mistake is made, developers can turn back the clock and compare earlier versions of the code to help fix the mistake while minimizing disruption to all team members.
  (soyrse atlassian official site -https://www.atlassian.com/git/tutorials/what-is-version-control)



famous version control System(VCS) :- Git(72%),
                          Bazaar(0%),
                          CVS(1%),
                          Subversion(23%),
                          mercurial(1%).
 git is the most powerful and popular version control system nowdays.

git:-(distributrd version control system) git is a program which is used to track changes in the source code during the development,but it cn be used with any type of files.
      the basic difference between the gate and other version control systems is that it doesn't store differences  in files
      it stores linkess to the snapchat of changed files in case file wasn't changed git doesn't store this file again instead it stores just a link to the previoius
      identical files that was already stored.
   
CENTRALIZED vs DISTRIBUTED VCS-
    
                  CENTRALIZED                                                  DISTRIBUTED    
   
In centralized system all engineers are connected                            Each engineer has a copy of the whole project and can easily
to the main server and all people collaborate through                         restore it if needed or in case there is no network get is a 
that server.                                                                    distributed version control to perform most of operations.

Biggest drawback here is the fact that when central server                      there is .git hidden folder present whict conatains all information 
id down , you can't collaborate in distributed                                  about the repository and no need gto conect to internet for perform opertions


Day-2:
git installations: https://git-scm.com/downloads (accoring to system install git to your system).
about gitbash: 
Git-Configuration levels(cofig. level can be inherited from lower level to upper ) :- system: all users + all  their repositories.                                                                                                                                   global: all repositories on the computer for current user.                                                                                                                     local: only current repository.                                  
 repository:-  a git repository is a .git folder inside the project , the reposity contains multiple files with conndfiguration and current project history to track all changes   made to files to project.                                                                                 
   
   git name and email registration : inside git bash
                                       git config --global user.name "name"
                                       git config --global user.email "xyz@gmail.com"
                                       git config --list (list out the files)
                                       git config --global core.editor "c:/program file/Notepad++/notepad++.exe"(for change the default code editor).
 
 
 two ways to create repository 1.create locally      2.clone existing repository
      git inti (return master branch)
      master is our single and the main branch which we have right after repository creation
      files can exist in one or two states -1 tracked 2.untracked 
         track file : git add file_name 
                      git status (used for checked status of the repositories)/git status -s(for short description
                      control+l (clear screen in gitbesh )
                      git add * .java(.java used for all the java files we want to add in the respository)
                       git add . (. means all posible names and extensions and if we will check its status now, we are going to see that now all file are ready to commit )
                       git commit -m "init commit"(-m (msg)commit in quotes)
help in github commands by just specify the help keyword eg- git status help/h
                         
                            

github resourses also present ingithub official website /https://www.atlassian.com/git/glossary
 for interview:https://www.simplilearn.com/tutorials/git-tutorial/git-interview-questions



                                                                                 
